best-practices/ml-platform/examples/use-case/finetuning/pytorch/README.md, before:

# Fine-tuning

Fine-tune a Gemma Instruction Tuned model using a flipkart processed catalog. The dataset used
for fine-tuning is generated by the Vertex AI Gemini Flash model. The fine-tuned model can be deployed
with an inference serving engine.

## Prerequisites

- The [ML Platform Playground](../../../platform/playground) must be deployed
- Data Set output from the [Data Preparation example](../../datapreparation/gemma-it)

## Preparation

- Set Environment variables

  ```sh
  PROJECT_ID=<your-project-id>
  PROJECT_NUMBER=$(gcloud projects describe ${PROJECT_ID} --format="value(projectNumber)")
  TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET=<training-dataset-bucket-name>
  MODEL_BUCKET=<model-artifacts-bucket>
  CLUSTER_NAME=<your-gke-cluster>
  NAMESPACE=ml-team
  KSA="app-sa"
  HF_TOKEN=<your-Hugging-Face-account-token>
  DOCKER_IMAGE_URL=us-docker.pkg.dev/${PROJECT_ID}/llm-finetuning/finetune:v1.0.0
  ```
  - TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET is the bucket you used in [datapreparation][datapreparation].
  - MODEL_BUCKET can be the same bucket TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET. If you want to use a different bucket, provide it a name.
  - HF_TOKEN is your huggingface access token. Go to https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens , click `Create new token` , provide a token name, select `Read` in token type and click `Create token`.

## GCS

The training data set is retrieved from a storage bucket and the fine-tuned model weights are saved onto a locally mounted storage bucket.

### Writing fine-tuned model weights

- Skip this step if your MODEL_BUCKET and TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET are the same bucket.

  - Create the bucket for storing the training data set

    ```sh
    gcloud storage buckets create gs://${MODEL_BUCKET} \
        --project ${PROJECT_ID} \
        --location us \
        --uniform-bucket-level-access
    
    ```

  - Setup Workload Identity Federation to access the bucket to write the model weights

    ```sh
    gcloud storage buckets add-iam-policy-binding gs://${MODEL_BUCKET} \
        --member "principal://iam.googleapis.com/projects/${PROJECT_NUMBER}/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/${PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog/subject/ns/${NAMESPACE}/sa/${KSA}" \
        --role "roles/storage.objectUser"
    ```

## Build the image of the source

- Build container image using Cloud Build and push the image to Artifact Registry
  Modify cloudbuild.yaml to specify the image url

```
cd src
gcloud builds submit --config cloudbuild.yaml \
--project ${PROJECT_ID} \
--substitutions _DESTINATION=${DOCKER_IMAGE_URL}
cd ..
```

## Deploy the Job

Get credentials for the GKE cluster

```sh
gcloud container fleet memberships get-credentials ${CLUSTER_NAME} --project ${PROJECT_ID}
```

### Deploy your Hugging Face token in your cluster

- Create secret for HF in your namespace

  ```sh
  kubectl create secret generic hf-secret \
      --from-literal=hf_api_token=${HF_TOKEN} \
      --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -n ${NAMESPACE} -f -
  ```

### Accept licence on hugging face if you have not done it already
- Go to https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-2-9b-it and accept the licence

### Fine-tuning Job Inputs

| Variable                             | Description                                                                                                                       | Example                                      |
| ------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| IMAGE_URL                            | The image url for the finetune image                                                                                              |                                              |
| MLFLOW_ENABLE                        | Enable MLflow, empty will also disable                                                                                            | true/false                                   |
| EXPERIMENT                           | If MLflow is enabled. experiment ID used in MLflow                                                                                | experiment-                                  |
| MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI                  | If MLflow is enabled, the tracking server URI                                                                                     | <http://mlflow-tracking-service.ml-tools:5000> |
| MLFLOW_ENABLE_SYSTEM_METRICS_LOGGING | If MLflow is enabled, track system level metrics, CPU/Memory/GPU                                                                  | true/false                                   |
| TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET              | The bucket which contains the generated prompts for fine-tuning.                                                                  |                                              |
| TRAINING_DATASET_PATH                | The path where the generated prompt data is for fine-tuning.                                                                      | dataset/output                               |
| MODEL_BUCKET                         | The bucket which will be the destination of the fine-tuned model.                                                                 |                                              |
| MODEL_PATH                           | The output folder path for the fine-tuned model. This location will be used by the inference serving engine and model evaluation. | /model-data/model-gemma2/experiment          |
| MODEL_NAME                           | The Hugging Face path to the base model for fine-tuning.                                                                          | google/gemma-2-9b-it                         |
| HF_TOKEN                             | The Hugging Face token used to pull the base model.                                                                               |                                              |

Update variables in the respective job submission manifest to reflect your configuration.

```sh
EXPERIMENT=""
MLFLOW_ENABLE="false"
MLFLOW_ENABLE_SYSTEM_METRICS_LOGGING="false"
MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI=""
TRAINING_DATASET_PATH="dataset/output/"
MODEL_PATH="/model-data/model-gemma2/experiment"
MODEL_NAME="google/gemma-2-9b-it"
```

Choose the accelerator (l4 | a100 | h100) as per your configuration

```sh
ACCELERATOR="l4"
```

```sh
sed -i -e "s|IMAGE_URL|${DOCKER_IMAGE_URL}|" \
    -i -e "s|KSA|${KSA}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MLFLOW_ENABLE_SYSTEM_METRICS_LOGGING|${MLFLOW_ENABLE_SYSTEM_METRICS_LOGGING}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MLFLOW_ENABLE|${MLFLOW_ENABLE}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_EXPERIMENT|${EXPERIMENT}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI|${MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET|${TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_TRAINING_DATASET_PATH|${TRAINING_DATASET_PATH}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MODEL_BUCKET|${MODEL_BUCKET}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MODEL_PATH|${MODEL_PATH}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MODEL_NAME|${MODEL_NAME}|" \
    yaml/fine-tune-${ACCELERATOR}-dws.yaml
```

### Deploy the respective resources for the job and type of resource

```sh
kubectl apply -f yaml/provisioning-request-${ACCELERATOR}.yaml -n ml-team
kubectl apply -f yaml/fine-tune-${ACCELERATOR}-dws.yaml -n ml-team
```
### Verify

In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Logs Explorer](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs) page to run the following query to see the completion of the job.

```sh
labels."k8s-pod/app"="finetune-job"
textPayload: "finetune - INFO - ### Completed ###"
```

After the fine-tuning job is successful, the model bucket should have a checkooint folder created.
   ```sh
   gcloud storage ls gs://${MODEL_BUCKET}/${MODEL_PATH}
   ```
[datapreparation]: ../../datapreparation/gemma-it/README.md#steps

Commit message:

Updating the documentation for fine-tuning

best-practices/ml-platform/examples/use-case/finetuning/pytorch/README.md, after:

# Fine-tuning

Fine-tune a Gemma Instruction Tuned model using a flipkart processed catalog. The dataset used
for fine-tuning is generated by the Vertex AI Gemini Flash model. The fine-tuned model can be deployed
with an inference serving engine.

## Prerequisites

- The [ML Platform Playground](../../../platform/playground) must be deployed
- Data Set output from the [Data Preparation example](../../datapreparation/gemma-it)

## Preparation

- Set Environment variables

  ```sh
  PROJECT_ID=<your-project-id>
  PROJECT_NUMBER=$(gcloud projects describe ${PROJECT_ID} --format="value(projectNumber)")
  TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET=<training-dataset-bucket-name>
  MODEL_BUCKET=<model-artifacts-bucket>
  CLUSTER_NAME=<your-gke-cluster>
  NAMESPACE=ml-team
  KSA="app-sa"
  HF_TOKEN=<your-Hugging-Face-account-token>
  DOCKER_IMAGE_URL=us-docker.pkg.dev/${PROJECT_ID}/llm-finetuning/finetune:v1.0.0
  ```
  - TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET is the bucket you used in [datapreparation][datapreparation].
  - MODEL_BUCKET can be the same bucket TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET. If you want to use a different bucket, provide it a name.
  - HF_TOKEN is your huggingface access token. Go to https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens , click `Create new token` , provide a token name, select `Read` in token type and click `Create token`.

## GCS

The training data set is retrieved from a storage bucket and the fine-tuned model weights are saved onto a locally mounted storage bucket.

### Writing fine-tuned model weights

- Skip this step if your MODEL_BUCKET and TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET are the same bucket.

  - Create the bucket for storing the training data set

    ```sh
    gcloud storage buckets create gs://${MODEL_BUCKET} \
        --project ${PROJECT_ID} \
        --location us \
        --uniform-bucket-level-access
    
    ```

  - Setup Workload Identity Federation to access the bucket to write the model weights

    ```sh
    gcloud storage buckets add-iam-policy-binding gs://${MODEL_BUCKET} \
        --member "principal://iam.googleapis.com/projects/${PROJECT_NUMBER}/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/${PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog/subject/ns/${NAMESPACE}/sa/${KSA}" \
        --role "roles/storage.objectUser"
    ```

## Build the image of the source

- Build container image using Cloud Build and push the image to Artifact Registry
  Modify cloudbuild.yaml to specify the image url

```
cd src
gcloud builds submit --config cloudbuild.yaml \
--project ${PROJECT_ID} \
--substitutions _DESTINATION=${DOCKER_IMAGE_URL}
cd ..
```

## Deploy the Job

Get credentials for the GKE cluster

```sh
gcloud container fleet memberships get-credentials ${CLUSTER_NAME} --project ${PROJECT_ID}
```

### Deploy your Hugging Face token in your cluster

- Create secret for HF in your namespace

  ```sh
  kubectl create secret generic hf-secret \
      --from-literal=hf_api_token=${HF_TOKEN} \
      --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -n ${NAMESPACE} -f -
  ```

### Accept licence on hugging face if you have not done it already
- Go to https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-2-9b-it and accept the licence

### Fine-tuning Job Inputs

| Variable                             | Description                                                                                                                       | Example                                      |
| ------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| IMAGE_URL                            | The image url for the finetune image                                                                                              |                                              |
| MLFLOW_ENABLE                        | Enable MLflow, empty will also disable                                                                                            | true/false                                   |
| EXPERIMENT                           | If MLflow is enabled. experiment ID used in MLflow                                                                                | experiment-                                  |
| MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI                  | If MLflow is enabled, the tracking server URI                                                                                     | <http://mlflow-tracking-service.ml-tools:5000> |
| MLFLOW_ENABLE_SYSTEM_METRICS_LOGGING | If MLflow is enabled, track system level metrics, CPU/Memory/GPU                                                                  | true/false                                   |
| TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET              | The bucket which contains the generated prompts for fine-tuning.                                                                  |                                              |
| TRAINING_DATASET_PATH                | The path where the generated prompt data is for fine-tuning.                                                                      | dataset/output                               |
| MODEL_BUCKET                         | The bucket which will be the destination of the fine-tuned model.                                                                 |                                              |
| MODEL_PATH                           | The output folder path for the fine-tuned model. This location will be used by the inference serving engine and model evaluation. | /model-data/model-gemma2/experiment          |
| MODEL_NAME                           | The Hugging Face path to the base model for fine-tuning.                                                                          | google/gemma-2-9b-it                         |
| HF_TOKEN                             | The Hugging Face token used to pull the base model.                                                                               |                                              |

Update variables in the respective job submission manifest to reflect your configuration.

```sh
EXPERIMENT=""
MLFLOW_ENABLE="false"
MLFLOW_ENABLE_SYSTEM_METRICS_LOGGING="false"
MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI=""
TRAINING_DATASET_PATH="dataset/output/"
MODEL_PATH="/model-data/model-gemma2/experiment"
MODEL_NAME="google/gemma-2-9b-it"
```

Choose the accelerator (l4 | a100 | h100) as per your configuration

```sh
ACCELERATOR="l4"
```

```sh
sed -i -e "s|IMAGE_URL|${DOCKER_IMAGE_URL}|" \
    -i -e "s|KSA|${KSA}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MLFLOW_ENABLE_SYSTEM_METRICS_LOGGING|${MLFLOW_ENABLE_SYSTEM_METRICS_LOGGING}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MLFLOW_ENABLE|${MLFLOW_ENABLE}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_EXPERIMENT|${EXPERIMENT}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI|${MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET|${TRAINING_DATASET_BUCKET}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_TRAINING_DATASET_PATH|${TRAINING_DATASET_PATH}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MODEL_BUCKET|${MODEL_BUCKET}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MODEL_PATH|${MODEL_PATH}|" \
    -i -e "s|V_MODEL_NAME|${MODEL_NAME}|" \
    yaml/fine-tune-${ACCELERATOR}-dws.yaml
```

### Deploy the respective resources for the job and type of resource

```sh
kubectl apply -f yaml/provisioning-request-${ACCELERATOR}.yaml -n ml-team
kubectl apply -f yaml/fine-tune-${ACCELERATOR}-dws.yaml -n ml-team
```
### Verify the completion of the fine-tuning job

In the Google Cloud console, go to the [Logs Explorer](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs) page to run the following query to see the completion of the job.

```sh
labels."k8s-pod/app"="finetune-job"
textPayload: "finetune - INFO - ### Completed ###"
```

After the fine-tuning job is successful, the model bucket should have a checkooint folder created.
   ```sh
   gcloud storage ls gs://${MODEL_BUCKET}/${MODEL_PATH}
   ```
[datapreparation]: ../../datapreparation/gemma-it/README.md#steps
